
                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.


=========================================================================
  - Sonatype Aether
    License: Eclipse Public License - v 1.0  (http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Eclipse Public License - v 1.0

THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE PUBLIC
LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM
CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS

"Contribution" means:

a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation
distributed under this Agreement, and

b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:

i) changes to the Program, and

ii) additions to the Program;

where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are
distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a
Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone
acting on such Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to
the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in
conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not
derivative works of the Program.

"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are
necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when
combined with the Program.

"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement,
including all Contributors.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to
reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such
derivative works, in source code and object code form.

b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants
Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed
Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the
Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form.
This patent license shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the
Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such
addition of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the
Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other combinations
which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is licensed hereunder.

c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to
its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any
Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual
property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to
Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on infringement of
intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the
rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole
responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any.
For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Recipient to
distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to acquire that license
before distributing the Program.

d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright
rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in
this Agreement.

3. REQUIREMENTS

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its
own license agreement, provided that:

a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

b) its license agreement:

i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and
conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and
non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose;

ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for
damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential
damages, such as lost profits;

iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered by
that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such Contributor,
and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a
medium customarily used for software exchange.

When the Program is made available in source code form:

a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and

b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the
Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if
any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the
originator of the Contribution.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with
respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is
intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who
includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner
which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if
a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such
Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify
every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages
and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal
actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the
extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in
connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product
offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses
relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order
to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial
Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor
to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and
any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may
participate in any such claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product
offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that
Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties
related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such
Commercial Contributor's responsibility alone. Under this section, the
Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other
Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court
requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial
Contributor must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE,
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each
Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and
distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of
rights under this Agreement , including but not limited to the risks and costs
of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data,
programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY
CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST
PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS
GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable
law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the
terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such
provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such
provision valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself
(excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware)
infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's rights granted under
Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to
comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does
not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of
such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate,
Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as
reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement
and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and
survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in
order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be
modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to
publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time.
No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement.
The Eclipse Foundation is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation
may assign the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable
separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a
distinguishing version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always
be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was
received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is published,
Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions)
under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b)
above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of
any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication,
estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted under
this Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the
intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this
Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year
after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in
any resulting litigation.


For the Windows Installer component:

    * All NSIS source code, plug-ins, documentation, examples, header files and
       graphics, with the exception of the compression modules and where
       otherwise noted, are licensed under the zlib/libpng license.
    * The zlib compression module for NSIS is licensed under the zlib/libpng
       license.
    * The bzip2 compression module for NSIS is licensed under the bzip2 license.
    * The lzma compression module for NSIS is licensed under the Common Public
       License version 1.0.

zlib/libpng license

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of
this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including
commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to
the following restrictions:

   1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim
       that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a
       product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
       appreciated but is not required.
   2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
       misrepresented as being the original software.
   3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

bzip2 license

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
       this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim
       that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a
       product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
       appreciated but is not required.
   3. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
       misrepresented as being the original software.
   4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
       derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE.

=========================================================================
  - JSoup
    License: MIT License  (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright 2009 - 2012 Jonathan Hedley (jonathan@hedley.net)
 All rights reserved.

 Permission is hereby granted, free  of charge, to any person obtaining
 a  copy  of this  software  and  associated  documentation files  (the
 "Software"), to  deal in  the Software without  restriction, including
 without limitation  the rights to  use, copy, modify,  merge, publish,
 distribute,  sublicense, and/or sell  copies of  the Software,  and to
 permit persons to whom the Software  is furnished to do so, subject to
 the following conditions:

 The  above  copyright  notice  and  this permission  notice  shall  be
 included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

 THE  SOFTWARE IS  PROVIDED  "AS  IS", WITHOUT  WARRANTY  OF ANY  KIND,
 EXPRESS OR  IMPLIED, INCLUDING  BUT NOT LIMITED  TO THE  WARRANTIES OF
 MERCHANTABILITY,    FITNESS    FOR    A   PARTICULAR    PURPOSE    AND
 NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
 LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
 OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,  ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
 WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

=========================================================================
  - Portions of HttpClient
    License: Creative Commons Attribution License  (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/legalcode)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Creative Commons Legal Code

*Attribution 2.5*

CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE
LEGAL SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS LICENSE DOES NOT CREATE AN
ATTORNEY-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS INFORMATION
ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES REGARDING THE
INFORMATION PROVIDED, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM
ITS USE.

/License/

THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS CREATIVE
COMMONS PUBLIC LICENSE ("CCPL" OR "LICENSE"). THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY
COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN AS
AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED.

BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE
TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE
RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH TERMS
AND CONDITIONS.

*1. Definitions*

   1. *"Collective Work"* means a work, such as a periodical issue,
      anthology or encyclopedia, in which the Work in its entirety in
      unmodified form, along with a number of other contributions,
      constituting separate and independent works in themselves, are
      assembled into a collective whole. A work that constitutes a
      Collective Work will not be considered a Derivative Work (as
      defined below) for the purposes of this License.
   2. *"Derivative Work"* means a work based upon the Work or upon the
      Work and other pre-existing works, such as a translation, musical
      arrangement, dramatization, fictionalization, motion picture
      version, sound recording, art reproduction, abridgment,
      condensation, or any other form in which the Work may be recast,
      transformed, or adapted, except that a work that constitutes a
      Collective Work will not be considered a Derivative Work for the
      purpose of this License. For the avoidance of doubt, where the
      Work is a musical composition or sound recording, the
      synchronization of the Work in timed-relation with a moving image
      ("synching") will be considered a Derivative Work for the purpose
      of this License.
   3. *"Licensor"* means the individual or entity that offers the Work
      under the terms of this License.
   4. *"Original Author"* means the individual or entity who created the
      Work.
   5. *"Work"* means the copyrightable work of authorship offered under
      the terms of this License.
   6. *"You"* means an individual or entity exercising rights under this
      License who has not previously violated the terms of this License
      with respect to the Work, or who has received express permission
      from the Licensor to exercise rights under this License despite a
      previous violation.

*2. Fair Use Rights.* Nothing in this license is intended to reduce,
limit, or restrict any rights arising from fair use, first sale or other
limitations on the exclusive rights of the copyright owner under
copyright law or other applicable laws.

*3. License Grant.* Subject to the terms and conditions of this License,
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive,
perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright) license to
exercise the rights in the Work as stated below:

   1. to reproduce the Work, to incorporate the Work into one or more
      Collective Works, and to reproduce the Work as incorporated in the
      Collective Works;
   2. to create and reproduce Derivative Works;
   3. to distribute copies or phonorecords of, display publicly, perform
      publicly, and perform publicly by means of a digital audio
      transmission the Work including as incorporated in Collective Works;
   4. to distribute copies or phonorecords of, display publicly, perform
      publicly, and perform publicly by means of a digital audio
      transmission Derivative Works.
   5.

      For the avoidance of doubt, where the work is a musical composition:

         1. *Performance Royalties Under Blanket Licenses*. Licensor
            waives the exclusive right to collect, whether individually
            or via a performance rights society (e.g. ASCAP, BMI,
            SESAC), royalties for the public performance or public
            digital performance (e.g. webcast) of the Work.
         2. *Mechanical Rights and Statutory Royalties*. Licensor waives
            the exclusive right to collect, whether individually or via
            a music rights agency or designated agent (e.g. Harry Fox
            Agency), royalties for any phonorecord You create from the
            Work ("cover version") and distribute, subject to the
            compulsory license created by 17 USC Section 115 of the US
            Copyright Act (or the equivalent in other jurisdictions).
   6. *Webcasting Rights and Statutory Royalties*. For the avoidance of
      doubt, where the Work is a sound recording, Licensor waives the
      exclusive right to collect, whether individually or via a
      performance-rights society (e.g. SoundExchange), royalties for the
      public digital performance (e.g. webcast) of the Work, subject to
      the compulsory license created by 17 USC Section 114 of the US
      Copyright Act (or the equivalent in other jurisdictions).

The above rights may be exercised in all media and formats whether now
known or hereafter devised. The above rights include the right to make
such modifications as are technically necessary to exercise the rights
in other media and formats. All rights not expressly granted by Licensor
are hereby reserved.

*4. Restrictions.*The license granted in Section 3 above is expressly
made subject to and limited by the following restrictions:

   1. You may distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or
      publicly digitally perform the Work only under the terms of this
      License, and You must include a copy of, or the Uniform Resource
      Identifier for, this License with every copy or phonorecord of the
      Work You distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or
      publicly digitally perform. You may not offer or impose any terms
      on the Work that alter or restrict the terms of this License or
      the recipients' exercise of the rights granted hereunder. You may
      not sublicense the Work. You must keep intact all notices that
      refer to this License and to the disclaimer of warranties. You may
      not distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly
      digitally perform the Work with any technological measures that
      control access or use of the Work in a manner inconsistent with
      the terms of this License Agreement. The above applies to the Work
      as incorporated in a Collective Work, but this does not require
      the Collective Work apart from the Work itself to be made subject
      to the terms of this License. If You create a Collective Work,
      upon notice from any Licensor You must, to the extent practicable,
      remove from the Collective Work any credit as required by clause
      4(b), as requested. If You create a Derivative Work, upon notice
      from any Licensor You must, to the extent practicable, remove from
      the Derivative Work any credit as required by clause 4(b), as
      requested.
   2. If you distribute, publicly display, publicly perform, or publicly
      digitally perform the Work or any Derivative Works or Collective
      Works, You must keep intact all copyright notices for the Work and
      provide, reasonable to the medium or means You are utilizing: (i)
      the name of the Original Author (or pseudonym, if applicable) if
      supplied, and/or (ii) if the Original Author and/or Licensor
      designate another party or parties (e.g. a sponsor institute,
      publishing entity, journal) for attribution in Licensor's
      copyright notice, terms of service or by other reasonable means,
      the name of such party or parties; the title of the Work if
      supplied; to the extent reasonably practicable, the Uniform
      Resource Identifier, if any, that Licensor specifies to be
      associated with the Work, unless such URI does not refer to the
      copyright notice or licensing information for the Work; and in the
      case of a Derivative Work, a credit identifying the use of the
      Work in the Derivative Work (e.g., "French translation of the Work
      by Original Author," or "Screenplay based on original Work by
      Original Author"). Such credit may be implemented in any
      reasonable manner; provided, however, that in the case of a
      Derivative Work or Collective Work, at a minimum such credit will
      appear where any other comparable authorship credit appears and in
      a manner at least as prominent as such other comparable authorship
      credit.

*5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimer*

UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR
OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTIBILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF
LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE OF ERRORS,
WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE
EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SUCH EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

*6. Limitation on Liability.* EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY
APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL
THEORY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF
LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

*7. Termination*

   1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
      automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this License.
      Individuals or entities who have received Derivative Works or
      Collective Works from You under this License, however, will not
      have their licenses terminated provided such individuals or
      entities remain in full compliance with those licenses. Sections
      1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 will survive any termination of this License.
   2. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the license granted
      here is perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright in
      the Work). Notwithstanding the above, Licensor reserves the right
      to release the Work under different license terms or to stop
      distributing the Work at any time; provided, however that any such
      election will not serve to withdraw this License (or any other
      license that has been, or is required to be, granted under the
      terms of this License), and this License will continue in full
      force and effect unless terminated as stated above.

*8. Miscellaneous*

   1. Each time You distribute or publicly digitally perform the Work or
      a Collective Work, the Licensor offers to the recipient a license
      to the Work on the same terms and conditions as the license
      granted to You under this License.
   2. Each time You distribute or publicly digitally perform a
      Derivative Work, Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the
      original Work on the same terms and conditions as the license
      granted to You under this License.
   3. If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under
      applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability
      of the remainder of the terms of this License, and without further
      action by the parties to this agreement, such provision shall be
      reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision
      valid and enforceable.
   4. No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no
      breach consented to unless such waiver or consent shall be in
      writing and signed by the party to be charged with such waiver or
      consent.
   5. This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
      with respect to the Work licensed here. There are no
      understandings, agreements or representations with respect to the
      Work not specified here. Licensor shall not be bound by any
      additional provisions that may appear in any communication from
      You. This License may not be modified without the mutual written
      agreement of the Licensor and You.

Creative Commons is not a party to this License, and makes no warranty
whatsoever in connection with the Work. Creative Commons will not be
liable to You or any party on any legal theory for any damages
whatsoever, including without limitation any general, special,
incidental or consequential damages arising in connection to this
license. Notwithstanding the foregoing two (2) sentences, if Creative
Commons has expressly identified itself as the Licensor hereunder, it
shall have all rights and obligations of Licensor.

Except for the limited purpose of indicating to the public that the Work
is licensed under the CCPL, neither party will use the trademark
"Creative Commons" or any related trademark or logo of Creative Commons
without the prior written consent of Creative Commons. Any permitted use
will be in compliance with Creative Commons' then-current trademark
usage guidelines, as may be published on its website or otherwise made
available upon request from time to time.

Creative Commons may be contacted at http://creativecommons.org/
<http://creativecommons.org>.